The aim here is keep the action running smoothly by reducing dead time and breaks in play, and focusing on the story and characters instead of the mechanics.
## Rolling initiative at breaks in the story
Rolling initiative at the start of combat slows down the pace massively and often leads to side chatter and people getting distracted right when the most intense and exciting action happens. Instead, roll initiative for the next encounter at the start of the session, after a short or long rest, or at other convenient breaks in play (e.g. players leaving a location). This way, play isn't interrupted and the party can jump right into the fight when combat starts. The DM will pre-roll initiative for all encounters as part of session prep.
## Milestone XP
Nowadays, a lot of DMs use milestone XP (i.e. getting XP for story milestones) instead of awarding XP for every monster. This reduces the noise and distraction at the end of combat, and lets people jump straight away into their post-combat actions (e.g. stabilising team members, looking for loot, etc). It also makes encounter balancing much easier for the DM because milestones come in a much more predictable order. Milestones are also more flexible than just killing some enemies, e.g. the party could level up for finding treasure, solving a mystery, etc.
## No random encounters
Many people still consider random encounters a key ingredient for D&D but it feels like throwbacks to the dungeon crawling days, before narrative started becoming more important. Combat for combat's sake, without any story connection or post-combat rewards, is pointless, it just takes up session time and makes it harder to balance encounters for the day since the party resource drain is much less predictable.
## Rolling hit points for groups of enemies
Not all people are built the same, even adventurers of the same species, class and level have different attributes. It makes sense that enemies would differ, too, but to keep it simple, only in hit points. D&D already supports this as every monster comes with a "roll for hit points" stat as well as a fixed hit points stat. In addition to making encounters more varied, realistic and narratively colourful (one bandit is tall and burly, one short and skinny, indicating higher and lower than standard hit points respectively), thereby providing opportunities for more in-character combat descriptions ("I shoot the big guy because he's going to be more dangerous!"), it also counteracts the metagaming strategy where players try to figure out what the maxmimum hit points for this type of monster is. If that's not possible due to randomisation, then that strategy has no value, so ideally players have to act more in-character, e.g. targeting the guy that already took a few hits and is swaying.
## One check only
If something requires an ability check, only one of the players can take it, although other players can assist. This aims to discourage round-robin-rolls where everyone gives it a go until it starts working. The in-world explanation is that the check determines which of the possible realities the party lives in: If the door couldn't be broken down with the barbarian's athletics check, then that means that the door turned out to be very sturdy. The barbarian didn't just suddenly become weaker, it's that the door was tough. If the barbarian or another party member tries again, that doesn't change the outcome, the door is still too sturdy to be broken down.
## Take 10
Older versions of D&D had the concept of "Take 10": A player could spend 10 minutes doing something that required a skill check and could then treat the outcome of the skill check as if they had rolled a 10 (on top of which any modifiers are applied). This is a workaround to "one check only" by letting the player take their time on the check to get the outcome they would get on average based on their skills; the catch here is that the party often doesn't have 10 minutes to spare. It's useful if the party wants to invest time to guarantee a success on a medium (DC 15) challenge for a skilled party member, but it also precludes any opportunity to get lucky on a hard challenge.
## Rolling checks
Some checks continue for a fixed duration or until something significant changes. If the party rolled well on stealth, then they will continue to be stealthy, i.e. every enemy observer has to check their passive perception against the stealth roll. The party only needs to reroll once a major change occurred, e.g. they get into a fight, or they alert guards while picking a lock.
## Rolling checks
Some checks continue for a fixed duration or until something significant changes. If the party rolled well on stealth, then they will continue to be stealthy, i.e. every enemy observer has to check their passive perception against the stealth roll. The party only needs to reroll once a major change occurred, e.g. they get into a fight, or they alert guards while picking a lock.
## Improved criticals
When a creature rolls a critical hit, they roll damage as normally and then add the maximum amount of their damage die on top. So that means if the normal damage is 1d8+2, on a crit that becomes 1d8+2+8. This goes for players, allies and enemies alike. The aim here is to make criticals feel more impactful because it's not fun to land a critical hit and then roll horribly.
## Roll hit and damage dice simultaneously
To speed up combat, roll hit and damage dice at the same time. This way, if the attack hits, you don't need to start collecting dice for the damage, but it's all done in one go.
## Improved healing potions
Instead of rolling for healing potions, they always heal for the maximum amount. However, using a potion takes an action, not a bonus action as in the new rulebook. The aim here is to make healing potions reliable since they're expensive and a rare find, and to make a better replacement for lack of a dedicated healer. To avoid them being overpowered, healing potions need to take an action to consume; combined with the fixed healing amount, it's now a meaningful choice to forgo another action in favour of healing.
## Flanking to reduce AC
As a counterweight to half, 3/4 and full cover, re-introduce flanking: A creature is flanked if it's adjacent to two creatures directly opposite. Flanking reduces the flanked creature's AC by 2. A third attacker at a right angle to the other two will reduce the AC further, to a total reduction of 5.

This could be potentially quite deadly when fighting groups of enemies, or a useful tool to gang up on a single boss. Depending on how this goes, might need to carefully consider using this. I'd hold off for now and maybe introduce this later.